+++
title = ""
weight = 1
showInMenu = false
+++

#### &emsp;  The Things They Carried: The Paralyzing Burden of War  

***

&emsp;&emsp;While it is often said that time heals all wounds, it is no secret that the traumas of war are life-changing - and in some instances, even irrecoverable - for the men and women who serve in them. Tim O’Brien, Vietnam veteran and author of The Things They Carried, pens a collection of moving short stories in the form of a novel, recollecting the events and emotions from his time in the twenty-third infantry division. Throughout his retelling, O’Brien deliberately chronicles “the things they carried” - articles both tangible and psychological - that comprise the unforgettable pains of war.  

&emsp;&emsp;O’Brien lists various tangible objects that the men tote in order to emphasize their emotional lack of security, as well as the tremendous efforts taken to simply keep themselves alive. Chiefly, O’Brien lists the various items that were determined by necessity and military rank, such as the guns and ammunition of a soldier, the supplies of a medic, or in the case of platoon leader Jimmy Cross, “a strobe light and the responsibility for the lives of his men” (O’Brien 5). While the men did haul crucial tools of defense, anything considered “appropriate as a means of killing or staying alive”, they also hauled items of faith, reassurance, and good luck. It is these possessions that convey the soldier’s true desperations and urgent need for hope. First Lieutenant Jimmy Cross carried a lucky pebble and letters from his unrequited love interest, Martha, Dave Jensen carried a rabbit’s foot, Kiowa carried a decorated bible, and Ted Lavender carried marijuana to escape the realities of war. Barbara Ehrenreich, political activist and author of Blood Rites: Origins and History of the Passions of War, describes warfare as an undertaking that “inverts all that is moral and right” (Ehrenreich, 3). Throughout their time in the twenty-third infantry, the men of The Things They Carried are constantly faced with this inversion of morality as they endure death, danger, and the terrible burden of the things they have seen and done. All physical objects kept with the soldiers are a means of survival in the face of the merciless uncertainties of war.  

&emsp;&emsp;Through the depiction of individual characters personal turmoils, O’Brien illustrates the detrimental agonies of war. Lieutenant Jimmy Cross is possibly the best example of this, as O'Brien details the severe guilt Cross carried after the death of fellow soldier Ted Lavender. Cross is vastly conflicted by his love for Martha, which he believes to have been a distraction, and thus, the cause of Lavender’s death. Cross promises to abandon all thoughts of her in order to entirely devote himself to the safety of his men, burning her letters in a failed gesture of commitment, and accepting Lavender’s death as “something [Cross] would have to carry like a stone in his stomach for the rest of the war” (16). The excruciating and slow toll warfare has on the mental health of soldiers is also shown in other ways, such as Kiowa’s lack of emotion in the face of immense tragedy. After Lavender’s death, O’Brien revealed that Kiowa “admired Lieutenant Jimmy Cross’s capacity for grief. [Kiowa] wanted to share the man’s pain, he wanted to care as Jimmy Cross cared”, yet he was incapable of doing so (17). Instead, most of the men who managed to escape death felt only relief and anger at the senselessness, but few had the strength to allow themselves to mourn. Every platoon member carried “ the emotional baggage of men who might die” but after witnessing those who did, O’Brien wrote, “it was very sad… the things men carried inside” (20, 24).  

&emsp;&emsp;By honestly acknowledging the unbearable emotions derived from combat, O’Brien proves that the most powerful “thing” carried among the men is the damaging psychological weight of the war itself. Candidly, O’Brien reveals the silent fears and reasonable but unspoken reluctance felt among them, admitting that the infantry carried “a soldier's greatest fear… the fear of blushing” (20). Historically, drafted men have gone to great lengths, taking near-suicidal or unfathomable measures to avoid participation in war (Ehrenreich 10). Many of the characters O’Brien develops throughout The Things They Carried are barely men, majority of them only boys having just come of legal age to serve, and do so not for glory or in defense of a just cause, but instead in defense of their reputation and the shameful “blush of dishonor” (20). By consequence, “men killed, and died, because they were embarrassed not to” (20). Through his unique, narrative-style storytelling, O’Brien personifies the cognitive “things they carried” - the renowned evil of war that causes men to flee it  - stating, “the bad stuff never stops happening: it lives in its own dimension, replaying itself over and over again”, forever preserved by memory (30). It is this truth, juxtaposed with the extreme external circumstances that war exerts over soldiers, that makes the trauma truly inescapable, as O’Brien tells from the present tense: “forty-three years old and the war occurred over half a lifetime ago, and yet the remembering makes it now” (36). Some things are simply too harrowing to forget. To conclude his primary list of “the things they carried”, O’Brien ends with the statement: “[the men] carried all they could bear, and then some, including a silent awe for the terrible power of the things they carried” (7).  

&emsp;&emsp;Wounding soldiers both emotionally and physically, the cost of war is often too high for any one individual to endure. While of course there is much physical suffering that takes place in combat, nothing compares to the greatest burden of war: the unrelenting psychological grip it exerts on men, long after the fighting has stopped (Ehrenreich 8). This phenomenon is exemplified many times throughout The Things They Carried. Tim O’Brien artfully and honestly reveals the many things the soldiers harbored, illustrating their attempts at survival and preservation of sanity. However, O’Brien puts heavy focus on the most powerful, lasting part of war - the one thing the men will never cease to carry - the cruel experience of war itself.  



&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;Works Cited  
Ehrenreich, Barbara. Blood Rites: Origins and History of the Passions of War. Granta, 2011.  
O’Brien, Tim. The Things They Carried. Mariner Books, 2009.
